In this video, we'll be using
the application Block07 as an example.
I'll show you how to use a number picker
to let the users choose
between multiple texts.
And then, how to display a web
page in your own application.
Start a new Android Studio project.
Call the application Block07,
and then click Next.
API level 16, click Next.
Choose an empty activity, click Next.
And click Finish.
Let's start by defining the graphical user
interface in the activity_main.xml file.
I remove the default TextView "Hello World".
Then, I scroll down to the Expert section.
And here, I drag the number picker.
Below the number picker,
I'll need a button.
So this button will read OK and onClick,
we want to call the navigate function.
Here, navigate.
Okay.
And the last thing we need is a WebView,
to display the web page below the button.
Now, we need to work on
the NumberPicker so it presents
texts to the user rather than numbers.
So let's move to the MainActivity.java file.
First, I need to retrieve
a reference to this NumberPicker.
So I'll create a NumberPicker
called possibilities.
Okay, let's use the findViewById
to retrieve the reference.
So that's a NumberPicker and
the id is numberPicker.
Okay.
Now, let's define an array
of strings with all
the texts that we want to display
in each row of the NumberPicker.
So let's call this array of strings,
possibilitiesStrings.
So, numberPicker will be
displaying 4 strings.
The first one is Android, and
the second one is a Checklist for
text-input fields.
Next, the third one is Coursera and
the last one is Supélec.
Okay.
Now, we need to associate this array
of Strings to the NumberPicker.
So
possibilities.setDisplayedValues(possibil-
itiesStrings).
And we need to specify that
the numberPicker offers 4
choices indexed from 0 to 3.
possibilities.setMinValue(0) and
the maximum values will be a 3.
But in case we decide to
add more choices here,
instead, I will put
possibilitesStrings.length- 1.
Okay.
Now,
let's look at the result on the emulator.
So here if I turn the numberPicker,
I get these 4 choices.
But if I click the OK button
when one choice is selected,
the application stops because we
haven't defined the navigate method yet.
So let's go back to the java code and
do that.
So remember that
the signature of the navigate
method that we declared in the onClick property
of the OK button should be public void,
then navigate.
And it takes one parameter of type View,
which in fact points to the OK button.
Okay, so what do we want to do
when the button is clicked?
Well, first we want to retrieve
the user choice so we can do that
let's call it int choice.
And we can do that by calling
the getValue on
the possibility object.
So that will give us
the index which was selected.
So if int choice is zero,
that means that the user wants to
display the Android web page.
If the choice is 1 he wants
to display the Checklist
text-input field web page,
and so on and so fourth.
Then, depending on the value
this choice we want to display
something in the webView.
So first, we need to retrieve
a reference to the webView.
So let's declare of WebView object,
let's call it webView.
Okay.
And here, let's retrieve
the reference to the webView.
findViewById(R.id.webView), okay.
3 of the webpages that we want
to display are local resources to
the application.
So we need to add them to the project.
Right-click on the app here, and
select New, Folder, Assets Folder.
Keep the defaults, and click Finish.
Now, in this new assets folder here,
I'll copy my HTML files.
I'm going to copy them and
I paste them here, okay.
And now, from my MainActivity.java file,
I can load them into the web view.
So I just call the webView.loadUrl,
and here, I specify the URL for
the 3 pages here.
So it's file,
because it's a local resource.
And I can access them using
the android_asset keyword.
And the first one, for
instance, is android.html.
Okay.
So I want to display this web page in
case the choice was at index zero.
if (choice == 0),
then that's the webpage I want to load.
Otherwise, else if (choice == 1),
so that's the checklist
I want to display and
that is webView.loadUrl.
It's a local resource again.
stored in the android assets
directory, and this time the name
of the file is checklist .html.
else if (choice == 2),
it means it's the third choice in the list.
This time it's not a local resource, but
rather it's a website which
is hosted on the Internet.
So we are still using the loadUrl method,
but instead of giving a local resource,
we use the http protocol, and
we try to reach www.coursera.org.
And the last choice if
(choice == 3).
Let's copy this.
We want to go to the supélec local resource.
Okay, let's try that on the emulator.
Now that Android is selected,
if I click OK,
the web view below displays
the Android webpage on our device.
If I select the Checklist text-input field,
and I click OK,
I've got a different webpage.
Now, if I pick a Coursera and click OK,
this time the webpage cannot
load because our application
does not have the permission
to access the Internet.
So we need to change something in
order for that problem to be solved.
So this, the permissions are specified
here in the AndroidManifest file.
So open it up,
in here right below the definition of
the application,
you need to add some permissions.
So the syntax is the following.
Uses.permission and
then name of the permission is internet.
So you need to look for
Android permission internet.
Okay, I went too far.
Okay.
That's the end of the permission that
we request. With that modification,
let's run the application again.
Well, if I pick Coursera and click OK,
this time the web page opens and
I can see the Coursera website.
Let's go back to our application and
pick, for instance, Android.
You'll notice that if I click on a link in
this web page, a new activity is started.
If I want the web page to
be displayed in my web view
instead of a new browser,
then I need to add something
here in my java file before
I load the URL here for
the Android I need to
specify a web client.
So webView.setWebViewClient, and
just create a (new WebViewClient).
Okay, let's try that again.
Okay, with the Android text selected,
I want to click OK.
Now, if I click a link in this webpage,
it does not open a new activity,
a new browser activity anymore.
Instead, the link is opened
directly in my web view.
In this video,
I've shown you how to display a webpage.
First, you need to add a web view
to your graphical user interface.
Next, if the webpage is a
resource of your application,
you first need to create an assets folder.
So you can do that by using the file menu,
new folder, assets folder.
Then you place your HTML
file in this folder, and
you can refer to it by using file:///,
android_asset and
then the name of the file
with the extension.
If the web page is hosted on the internet,
you can use a regular url,
http:// name of the server and
then the name of the page.
But you also need to change
your AndroidManifest file, so
the application requests
permission to access the internet.
So you need to add uses-permission
android:name="android.permission.INTERNET".
After that, you can load the web page in
the web view by using the loadUrl method.
To avoid links to open a new activity,
a browser activity, but
rather to open in the current web view,
you need to call the setWebViewClient and
provide a new WebViewClient to it.